Recipes
=======

I'm putting recipes from my family cookbook here as well as writing down my
own recipes with more specificity than I usually do.

I grew up vegetarian, so there's a lot of meatless or meat-optional meals
here. Some of the things my mother put in the cookbook she gave me are, I'm
sure, clippings from the Vegetarian Times magazine. In hindsight I had a
delicious pan-cultural upbringing but also most of the recipes I grew up
with were lightened up on fat, salt and spices. My approach to cooking now
uses a lot more of all of those things, and I'm starting to bump up the
numbers in those older recipes. On the other hand, what my family did
growing up did manage to steer around the blandest, cardboardiest bits of
1980s vegan macrobiotic diet weirdness. Not so many kale salads with tofu
dressings, more vaguely "asian" themed dishes, with only one or two
ingredients giving a gist of what culture they were derived from. Bridging
the gap from there is something I learned to do later.

I'm a huge fan of [Salt Fat Acid Heat](https://www.saltfatacidheat.com/) as
a theory of cooking, and in general like Samin Nosrat's down-to-earth
approach to food. Much of what I cook would make sense in that context.
There will be an inordinate number of dishes containing lemon, as it's one
of my favorite flavors, and a near-instant source of delicious acidity for
foods. I use a lot of spices — I buy in bulk and use them up before they go
stale, so there are amounts that many white people in the US would be
surprised by and anyone in another century would be ill at ease to afford.
I'm a fan of the [theory of
spices](https://epicesdecru.com/products/livres/the-golden-rules-of-spices)
that [Epices de Cru](https://epicesdecru.com/) advances too.

I've collected a longer list of [resources and techniques](resources.md) as
well.

In addition, I'm used to cooking for dietary restrictions — I'm married to
someone with some health issues that diet helps, and my vegetarian
upbringing means I'm used to substituting even for very central parts of
recipes. You may be interested in the list of [ingredients I keep on hand](./Ingredients.md), as I think it both shows the philosophy I have with
cooking a bit and paints a picture of how I cook.

Mains
-----

[Lemon Beans and Rice](Mains/Lemon Beans and Rice.md), a rich take on ful
madamus

[Empanadas](Mains/Empanadas.md), tasty hand pies that keep well for days

[Sunburgers](Mains/Sunburgers.md), a vegan burger made from oats and
sunflower seeds

[Red Lentil Dal with Coconut Milk](Red Lentil Coconut Dal.md)

[Moroccan chicken with green olives and lemon](Mains/Moroccan chicken with green olives and lemon.md) tajine for European style cookware.

[Lemon gravy chicken](Mains/Lemon Gravy Chicken.md) a simplified variation
for a restricted diet.

[Chicken, Mushroom and Rice Soup](Mains/Chicken-Mushroom-Rice-Soup.md)

[Italian Gumbo](Mains/Italian-Gumbo.md)

[Gumbo](Mains/Gumbo.md), the cajun sort.

[Beef and Raisin Pie](Mains/Beef-and-raisin-pie.md)

[Seaweed Soup](Mains/Seaweed Soup.md)

[Deep Dish Savory Ricotta Pie](Mains/Deep-Dish-Savory-Ricotta-Pie.md)

[Sopa de Fuba](Mains/Sopa-de-Fuba.md) Brasilian cornmeal soup! (With greens and kielbasa)

Sides
-----

[Baba Ghanouj](Sides/Baba Ghanouj.md), and a [version with zucchini](./Sides/Zucchini Ghanouj.md).

[Cumin and Carrot Rice](Sides/Cumin and Carrot Rice.md)

[Cheesy Sauce and Cauliflower](Sides/Cheesy Sauce and Cauliflower.md)

[Hummus](Sides/Hummus.md)

[Orange Hummus](Sides/Orange Hummus.md)

[Kibbeh](Sides/Kibbeh.md)

[Corn Waffles](Sides/Corn Waffles.md) — Gluten free

[Mashed Turnips](Sides/Mashed Turnips.md)

[Corn and Cranberry Stuffed Squash](Sides/Corn-and-Cranberry-Stuffed-Squash.md)

Salads
------

[Broad Bean Salad](Salads/Broad Bean Salad.md).

[Creamy Italian Sausage Pasta Salad](Salads/Creamy Italian Sausage Pasta Salad.md)

[Sweet Potato Chile Coconut Salad](Salads/Sweet Potato Chile Coconut Salad.md)

[Sweet Potato Salad with Greens](Salads/Sweet Potato Salad with Greens.md)

[Lemon Feta Carrot Pasta Salad](Salads/Lemon Feta Carrot Pasta Salad.md)

[Cool Rice Bowl with Radishes](Salads/Cool Rice Bowl With Radishes.md) with
flavors of ginger and scallion

[Orzo Fruit Salad](Salads/Orzo Fruit Salad.md), a creamy sand sweet vegan
pasta salad.

[Egg-Not! Salad](Salads/Egg Not Salad.md) tastes like the good parts of a
vegetarian society potluck.

[Greek Salad](Salads/Greek Salad.md), one of my family's recipes growing up,
with no pretenses of actual connection to Greek culture.

[Mediterranean Chickpea Salad](Salads/Mediterranean Chickpea Salad.md)

[Roast Beet Salad](Salads/Roast Beet Salad.md)

Sauces
------

[Cranberry Orange Sauce](Sauces & Dressings/Cranberry Orange Sauce.md)

[Pico de Gallo](Sauces & Dressings/Pico de Gallo.md)

[Salsa Verde](Sauces & Dressings/Salsa Verde.md)

[Rhubarb Sauce](Sauces & Dressings/Rhubarb Sauce.md)

[Mesquite Ranch](Sauces & Dressings/Mesquite-Ranch.md)

Snacks
------

[Chickpea and Onion Fritters](Snacks/Chickpea and Onion Fritters.md).

[Pickled Beets](Snacks/Pickled Beets.md)

Breads
------

[Empanada Dough](Breads/Empanada Dough.md)

[Irish Soda Bread](Breads/Irish soda bread.md)

[Pita Bread](Breads/Pita Bread.md)

[Pizza Dough](Breads/Pizza-Dough.md)

[Orange Rolls](Breads/Orange Rolls.md), move over Cinnamon Rolls.
(And healthier too)

Cocktails
---------

### Ingredients

[Dzin without Tonic](Drinks/Dzin without Tonic.md), a syrup for making a
virgin gin and tonic like drink

[Melon Syrup](Drinks/Melon Syrup.md), using waste parts of a rockmelon for
flavor.

[Rhubarb Syrup](Drinks/Rhubarb Syrup.md), goes great when making those early
summer pies.

### Drinks

[Apple Amontillado](Drinks/Apple Amontillado.md)

[Blue Thing](Drinks/Blue Thing.md) for [Danielle](https://www.twitter.com/quephird).

[Blueberry Peach Cocktail](Drinks/Blueberry Peach Cocktail.md)

[Coffee and Cough Drop](Drinks/Coffee and Cough Drop.md), weird but good

[Melon Lime Fizz](Drinks/Melon Lime Fizz.md), a refreshing summer cocktail.

[Mediterranean Gulf](Drinks/Mediterranean Gulf.md), using both tequila and
mastiha liquor.

[Orange Coconut Creamsicle](Drinks/Orange Coconut Creamsicle.md)

[Orange Thing](Drinks/Orange Thing.md)

[Peach Thing](Drinks/Peach Thing.md)

[Sour Cherry](Drinks/Sour Cherry.md)

[Strawberry Sour](Drinks/Strawberry Sour.md)

[Tamarind-Peach Cocktail](Drinks/Tamarind-Peach Cocktail.md)

Desserts
--------

[Peach Custard Pie](Desserts/Peach Custard Pie.md)

[Crustimony Proseedcake](Desserts/Crustimony Proseedcake.md)

[Eggnog](Desserts/Eggnog.md)

[Rhubarb Custard Tart](Desserts/Rhubarb Cream Tart.md)
